So we've talked a little bit about
playing audio just mp3 files and
then buffering it decoding it and
then playing it with low latency.
Now let's talk a little bit
about visualizing that audio,
how do we take the audio data and
split the nodes up so
that we have some nodes that are playing
the audio through the speakers.
But then another node that's analyzing
the audio as it's playing and
maybe then we can start
to do some interesting
data visualization with it
some sort of generative piece.
Maybe something just like music visualizer
whatever it is you really wanna do,
so to understand how to do this.
First we have to understand how do we
think of this waveform in a way that is
more digital rather than just being this
graphing of the wave going up and down.
How do we map this into a digital
space with arrays in JavaScript and
things like that?
So what we're gonna use is
a Web Audio API function called
getfloatTimeDomainData very
long wordy function.
And that's from the analyserNode which
I'll show you how to set up in a second.
And what that does is it gets us back
the data of the waveform as it's playing
based on whatever it is that's
playing through that analyserNode.
So remember here how I was talking about
waveforms earlier what it's going to
give us are these little sample
points where if you zoomed really far
in those little dots on the graph.
Are the values that are gonna
come through this function and
be put into an array and so over time
if we were to store all of the little
samples that it gives
us from this function.
Eventually we'll be able to draw the same
graph that you see here zoomed out.
But because we're
streaming this audio in and
because we're playing the audio and
because we can't just save every
single sample all at once into a big
array that would be this massive array.
What we tend to do in audio sort of
programming is we tend to think about it
in terms of a window so we have a playhead
which is where the audio is playing.
And then there's a window which is
some slice of time that's ahead
of the playhead, and it's already
loaded that audio into memory and
it's getting ready to play it.
And because it's already there in
memory we can start to analyze it so
that's kind of how this works is that.
It just takes a little window a slice of
the audio as is playing rather than trying
to take all of the data from
the entire audio track.
So just to see it in another way let's
imagine for example that we're going
from the 35th millisecond to the 36
millisecond in an audio track.
I mean those are arbitrary timestamps it
might actually be much smaller slices of
time or bigger depending on your settings.
But then what we're gonna get from this
API function we're just gonna get the data
within this little window here
the little data points of the wave and
of the waveform.
So here's how it looks in an array
when we call this function we
pass in the array that we
want to receive the data.
So we're just reusing the same array every
time we would call this function and
the array has the index of zero starting.
This is the zero element of the array and
then it goes all the way to whatever
the maximum index of the array is.
We can set this to be a bigger array if we
wanna have a bigger window and we wanna
have more data, or we can do a smaller
array if we don't need that much data.
And inside each element of
the array is the actual signal so
if I was just to go back to this.
Remember I talked about how this graph
is always positive 1 to negative 1
it's always normalized
between those two values.
So these float values are always
between negative one and positive one.
And here on the left, this first index
represents the start of the window.
So this line here, and this last index,
whatever the value is here represents
whatever the value point in the sample
point is at the end of the window there.
So every time we call this function as
the audio is playing we're probably
gonna get a different waveform
because it's always gonna just
be a single little slice of audio.